# Subgame Literature

..."The fact that Zermelo’s algorithm picks out the strategy vector (LR, RL) as the unique solution to the game shows that it’s yielding something other than just an NE. In fact, it is generating the game’s _subgame perfect equilibrium_ (SPE). It gives an outcome that yields a NE not just in the _whole_ game but in every subgame as well.&#x20;

_"_[_Nash equilibrium (NE)_](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/nash-equilibrium.asp) _in game theory is **a situation in which a player will continue with their chosen strategy, having no incentive to deviate from it, after taking into consideration the opponent's strategy**."_

This is a persuasive solution concept because, again unlike the refinements of Section 2.5, it does not demand ‘extra’ rationality of agents in the sense of expecting them to have and use philosophical intuitions about ‘what makes sense’. It does, however, assume that players not only know everything strategically relevant to their situation but also _use_ all of that information. In arguments about the foundations of economics, this is often referred to as an aspect of rationality, as in the phrase ‘rational expectations’. But, as noted earlier, it is best to be careful not to confuse the general normative idea of rationality with computational power and the possession of budgets, in time and energy, to make the most of it.

_**An agent playing a subgame perfect strategy simply chooses, at every node she reaches, the path that brings her the highest payoff in the subgame emanating from that node. SPE predicts a game’s outcome just in case, in solving the game, the players foresee that they will all do that.**_

A main value of analyzing extensive-form games for SPE is that this can help us to locate structural barriers to social optimization. In our current example, Player I would be better off, and Player II no worse off, at the left-hand node emanating from node 7 than at the SPE outcome. But Player I’s economic rationality, and Player II’s awareness of this, blocks the socially efficient outcome. If our players wish to bring about the more socially efficient outcome (4,5) here, they must do so by redesigning their institutions so as to change the structure of the game. The enterprise of changing institutional and informational structures so as to make efficient outcomes more likely in the games that agents (that is, people, corporations, governments, etc.) actually play is known as _mechanism design_, and is one of the leading areas of application of game theory. The main techniques are reviewed in [Hurwicz and Reiter (2006)](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/game-theory/#Hur06), the first author of which was awarded the Nobel Prize for his pioneering work in the area."

[https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/game-theory/#Subgame](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/game-theory/#Subgame)
