---
description: 'AKA: NaaS, DaaS, FaaS'
---

# DeFi as a Service

{% hint style="info" %}
**Good to know:** Depending on a DeFi 2.0/3.0's protocol they may refer to their protocol as a Node, DeFi, Farming, etc. as a service. This essentially means they will build up a treasury basket to produce high yields while simultaneously improving the protocol and native token so they can provide value to their holders, stakers, nodlers and/or combination of.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

## The General Concepts of DaaS Protocols

Node projects have proven to be an exceptionally high performing concept in providing participants with fixed, daily tokens.&#x20;

The node model functions through spending your tokens on a node application page, which creates a node that will passively receive daily token rewards. _**Note\* your tokens can never be recovered except by waiting the 30-120 days to recoup the initial cost of the node after pay any claim taxes required.**_ This is similar to buying a property and renting it out to receiving passive income from the renter(s).&#x20;

As supply and demand increases for the DaaS protocol, the tokens _should_ become more scarce resulting in _long term price appreciation_. _**This assumes the protocol fixes or burns the supply (some such as OHM forks offer very high yields while simultaneously increasing their supply).**_  Keep in mind volatility can appreciate or depreciate token values depending on the buyers (bulls) versus the sellers (bears).

Indexes or treasuries often refer to a "pool" of various funds managed by a project. The purpose of a treasury is to diversify into other protocols effectively creating a yield basket. These yield basket aims to save users time, stress, and increase the longevity of the project.&#x20;

In other words, the rewards generated by a treasury, index, (or yield basket) helps to sustain the protocol allowing for buybacks, decreased sell pressure, burning, and reduced supply while replenishing the reward pool to benefit participants. &#x20;



